Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Throughout human history things have changed
and yet somehow the same story repeats,
again and again.
With 6 characters, and 6 stories, Cloud Atlas
is a very challenging film to tackle.
And because of that, this video will be structured a
little bit differently:
First, I’m going to summarize every main character’s story very quickly and very briefly.
Followed by a section dedicated to explaining
things and analyzing aspects of the movie.
You can find timestamps down below and on-screen right now.
And with that out of the way, come with me on
a voyage from the early Age of Sail to the distant
shorts of a far off future.
This is Cloud Atlas.
We first follow Adam Ewing, in 1849.
He’s a lawyer working for his father-in-law
who owns and uses slaves and,
and one day while visiting a plantation,
he hears a mysterious noise, and he tracks the sound long enough
to come face to face with a slave getting whipped
And as soon as he makes eye contact with the slave, Adam collapses.
Turns out, Adam’s got a case of parasitic worms
and he’s being treated by Dr. Goose, a very shady and unscrupulous man
And as he is being given a checkup,
we find out that Adam has a birthmark in the shape of a star
Something important to the film and something I will elaborate on later.
And we then follow Adam, as he's heading back home on a ship
quarantined and kept separate  from the rest of the crew
and he spends his time writing in a diary about his experience aboard the ship
during which he encounters Autua
The same slave he saw getting whipped earlier,
who stowed away on the same ship that Adam is now on.
And somehow they become friends over something very simple:
Autua believes that you can become friends with anyone
with anyone as long as you look them in the
eye.
But its implied its because they are both
outcasts, in their own way
Autua being a slave and Adam being
being quarantined and kept separate from the rest of the crew
Later, we find out that Dr. Goose is poisoning
Adam to steal his stuff,
and ultimately, Autua catches him trying to kill Adam
and together with Adam’s help they kill Dr. Goose.
And when Adam finally gets back home to San Francisco
He’s welcomed back by his wife, Tilda; and Adam intentionally
goes to his boss, his father-in-law,
and burns a slave contract and tells him that
he and his wife, will be freeing slaves from
now on.
Adam, cannot in good conscience work for someone who buys and owns slaves
To which his father in law thinks he’s
stupid.
It's a foolish idea, it'll be just  a drop in the ocean.
It'll mean nothing!
But Adam sees it differently, even if freeing one slave is like a drop in the ocean.
It'll be worth it in the end
And the last thing, we see is him leaving with Tilda, hand in hand
And that's the end of the first story
“Now what is an ocean but a multitude of drops?”
This line along with Adam’s story is the
thesis statement of this film.
It sets up the themes, motifs, and concepts
that will be explored throughout this movie
Themes of human nature,
of love, reincarnation, society, oppression,
and connections we have with each other and the world around us.
All explored in 6 different periods of human history, in 6 stories
Then we follow Robert Frobischer, in 1936
who just like Adam has a star shaped birthmark.
Now his story is told through a series of letters
that he sends to his lover, Rufus Sixsmith.
And in them, Robert tells Rufus about his
life working as the amanuensis of Vyvyan Ayrs,
a very famous composer who lives in Edinburgh
While working for Vyvyan in Edinburgh, he
finds a journal detailing Adam Ewing’s adventures
at sea (the previous story), and he feels
inspired enough to write his own composition:
The Cloud Atlas Sextet.
But one night, Vyvyan comes downstairs and approaches Robert
and tells him about his dream that he had,
In the dream he heard this amazing song that he had never heard of before
being played in a restaurant where all the waitresses had the same face
and although he can’t remember the song.
And it’s implied that the song Vyvyan heard
in his dream, was the one Robert was composing.
because Robert was playing it in the middle of the night
Ultimately what happens is that, Robert and
Vyvyan have a fight over the rights of the
song, the Cloud Atlas Sextet
From there, the fight gets serious and Vyvyan
threatens to ruin Robert’s reputation by exposing
him as a homosexual, and Robert ends up shooting
Vyvyan and fleeing the house.
Now a fugitive on the run, Robert hides in a hotel
where he finishes composing
The Cloud Atlas Sextet
And when he’s done, he kills himself, believing
that death is not the end and that he’ll
reunite with Rufus in another life. Minutes before Rufus gets to the hotel
and finds Robert's dead body in the bathtub,
reuniting with him, one final time. Just not in the way he wanted to
And so ends his story
Now, Robert Frobischer's story and the Cloud Atlas Sextet is Important
because they reinforce the theme of connection in ways both
Physical, mental, ideological,
psychological, fundamental and of course, spiritual
And we see this very clearly in the 6 main characters all of whom have the same
star shaped birthmark somewhere on their body
Which denotes them as a main character but also connects them for a very special reason
that I will explain later.
Which brings me to the Cloud Atlas Sextet
which is a musical composition meant
to be played by 6 musicians.
And we have six stories with six characters
in them being played by six actors.
A very obvious connection, right then and there.
But did you notice throughout every single story,
there is a callback to a previous character.
Robert finds a book about Adam’s voyage back home to San Francisco
in Vyvyan’s mansion and then later,
his own letters and sextet, is listened to and read by Luisa Rey
Who just so happens to be our next story.
Then we follow, journalist Luisa Rey, in 1973,
San Francisco.
Who meets Rufus Sixsmith in an elevator and
he notices that she also has a star shaped
birthmark. Just like Adam and just like Robert.
Later, in his hotel room, we find out that
Rufus is now a nuclear physicist, who wrote
a very important report on a nuclear power
plant.
And he calls Luisa to get her to leak the
report however, he’s assassinated, his murder
is framed a suicide and the hitman takes the report.
So when Luisa gets there, she finds Rufus's dead body on the bed
his letters left there and after reading the letters
She finds out about the Cloud Atlas Sextet
So the next day, she goes to a record store to find a copy of the song
and we briefly meet a guy who looks very familiar and they both muse
that the music that’s playing in the store,
is the Cloud Atlas Sextet, and it's crazy but
it sounds familiar for both them
But I think I heard this before
even though this is the first time, Luisa’s ever heard it.
From there we follow Luisa as she investigates
Rufus’s mysterious death, investigating
the powerplant, where she meets Isaac Sachs,
a fellow nuclear physicist who gives her a copy of Rufus’s
report and later as she drives off and he
gets on a plane.
His plane blows up and shes knocked off a
bridge by the same hitman who killed Rufus.
with the report sinking to the bottom of the
bay.
Later, she meets Joe, a friend of her father
and a security consultant at the powerplant,
who tells her about a conspiracy by Big Oil
to make the nuclear powerplant fail so that
the oil companies can be more profitable, and this conspiracy is being led by Lloyd Hooks,
the guy running the Swannekke Island Nuclear Power Plant
From there, Luisa and Joe lure out the hitman and try to kill him,
but fail and so they are chased throughout
San Francisco,
hiding, ducking, weaving, and bobbing and dodging until finally
a random woman kills the hitman.
Now, that they are safe, they are able to
contact Rufus’s niece who just so happens
to have a copy of the report that she gives
to Luisa who in turn publishes it,
exposing the conspiracy and the power plant scandal.
And so ends her story
Now, Luisa's story is important because it explicitly
mentions "Reincarnation".
Which is the idea that after you die, instead of going
to the afterlife, your soul is reborn into a new body on Earth.
In a new, physical incarnation.
Which explains why all the main characters
all have the same birthmark on their bodies
They are a reincarnation of each other and potentially, a reincarnation of Adam.
So this idea of reincarnation is backed up and alluded to in many different ways
throughout the film
And specifically in Luisa’s story, after she listens to the Cloud Atlas Sextet
she says that its familiar to her
even though it’s the first time she ever
heard it.
Which is very interesting because this implies that the soul that is reincarnating again and again
is able to remember information from other incarnations
Even if it's in a different body, regardless of time and space
Then we follow Tim Cavendish in 2012, who
while attending a award party for publishers and writers
Is accompanied by Dermot Hoggins, whose book he published
and whose book utterly failed after getting a scathing critique from the critic, Felix Finch
and one thing leads to another and Dermot throws Felix off of the building
This causes Dermot’s book, Knuckle Sandwich, to sell like hotcakes
and Tim makes a lot of money from this
But the problem comes in when after he spends
all this money, Dermot’s brothers come in
and demand 50,000 pounds by tomorrow.
Money that Tim doesn’t have, so Tim calls
his brother for help who although doesn’t
give him money, tells him that knows a place where Tim can hide: Aurora House.
So, Tim goes there, but not before visiting
the home of his old flame and remembering
the time that he lost virginity which although
sounds completely random is very important
because we find out that he has a star shaped birthmark as well just like the other characters.
and when he checks into Aurora House, he wakes
up the next morning to find out that it’s not a hotel, it’s
actually a nursing home and now Tim is stuck there. A prisoner, perhaps, forever!
But with the help of a few friends, he is
able to escape,
managing to get away from the ‘evil' Nurse Noakes
and Tim is free to write up a memoir about his time at Aurora House,
and reunites with his old flame in the process and so ends his story
Now, Tim’s story introduces an idea that is heavily associated with reincarnation
and that is: Karma. Which is this idea that if you do good things and do bad things
you will have good luck and bad luck, accordingly. But this only happens to you in your next life
Which is very interesting because all the previous incarnations of Tim
have been shown to be very selfish and, well, kind of cruel and manipulative
like the sea captain in Adam's story and Vyvyan Ayrs in Robert's.
and it seems like in this lifetime, Tim is being punished for all the crimes of his past incarnations
being mistreated and abused at the hands of Nurse Noakes at Aurora House,
and yet he finds a light within himself, he's able to escape with the help of a few friends
and in doing so, proves that we can overcome our innate desires
We are not shackled by the sins of our past, and we can move forward, forging a better future for ourselves
conquering our innermost desires, no matter how cruel or selfish they may be.
Becoming better people in the process
In the future of Neo-Soul, 2144, a city half
sunk underneath a rising sea level.
We follow Sonmi-451, a “fabricant”, a
clone made to be slaves for the upper class.
She specifically is a waitress at a cafe.
Her story is retold as part of an interrogation
by Archivist Park, before her execution.
You see, as a Fabricant, there's only 1 thing she wants, most in life
to be "exalted".
But after a fellow clone, Yoona-939 who shows
her a clip of a movie
based off of Tim Cavendish’s life
she feels inspired.
Inspired to change society. Inspired to defend herself
But after an incident in the cafe, Yoona is killed after trying to escape
and one day Sonmi wakes up one day to find
Hae-Joo, a member of the Rebellion at her
cafe
who takes her away to the world outside her restaurant.
Welcome to Neo-Seoul
And it's the first time she's ever been outside of it and it's amazing
And he takes her to a hotel where she’s educated
on a variety of topics, where she’s given
a choice to choose for herself, where she
realizes
that she’s more than just an expendable clone.
She’s a person with rights, with feelings.
Then the cops bust in, and Sonmi tries to
escape with Hae-Joo who falls
and she's captured by the police
only to be rescued by Hae-Joo who brings her to meet the rebelloin leader
who asks her to join the rebellion.
She agrees to be figurehead of the rebellion, the face of the rebellion
after seeing what happens to Fabricants who get exalted
they are executed and turned into Soap–Fabricant Food.
So she’s taken to a relay station where
she transmits a message, as the police begin
killing the rebels, including Hae-Joo, and ultimately they end up capturing Sonmi.
And she is interrogated by Archivist Park, she's says something that leaves him shocked
I believe death is only a door, one closes and another opens
and if were to imagine heaven, I would imagine a door opening
and he would be waiting for me there
and it's after this that she's taken to be executed and so ends her story
Now, Sonmi’s story deals with themes of
oppression, society, reincarnation and love.
That last thing she says to Archivist Park, before she's taken to be executed
heavily implies that one of the reasons why the souls
are reincarnating is due to their ‘love’ for their soul mate
It's implied that Adam's soul has such a powerful love for Tilda,
that he's able to reincarnate across human history. Latching onto different bodies, again and again
All in the hopes of reuniting with Tilda
meaning that Adam's love didn't die with his body.
Now going back to oppression and society, in every single story there's at least
1 or 2 bad guys, who represent the most wicked parts of that times society
who are usually power hungry or greedy, or even representative of dark desires
But in every single story, we have our main characters who find a cause worth living for
A cause worth fighting for, like: Truth, Justice, Freedom, Equality, Survival or even Love
And in doing so, they are able to triumph over evil.
Creating a better world for themselves and for future generations
We then follow Zachry, in the year 2311, a
tortured soul guilty over the death of his
brother-in-law and his nephew.
He was too scared to save them from the cannibalistic
Kona tribesmen and is now haunted by a demon
called Old Georgie.
Although whether it’s just a hallucination
or if its real is left in the air.
Now it's sometime after his village is visited by a
Prescient named Meronym
– Prescient’s being humans who are able to use advanced technology –
Catkin, his niece gets sick from radiation with a tumor growing on her foot
he strikes a deal with Meronym: He’ll help her get
to the top of a mountain, IF she heals Catkin.
After healing Catkin, they set off on a journey,
all the while Old Georgie haunts Zachry.
They manage to get the mountain where a transway
station is built
– a building from Sonmi’s story –
and Meronym uses it to broadcast an emergency
message to the human colonies in space,
asking them to rescue them.
With that done, they go back home, only to find Zachry’s village under attack by the Kona,
and after rescuing Catkin,
Zach goes on the run and gets into a fight
with the Kona only to be saved by Meronym.
and ultimately, Zach and Meronym along with Catkin
decide to go to the outer space colonies together,
and years later, he tells his grandchildren
the story of how he met Meronym.
And we then see that he has a star shaped birthmark on the back of his head.
And so ends his story
Now if Adam’s story was a thesis statement,
Zachry’s story is the conclusion.
It's takes all the themes and ideas that this movie explores and ties it up with a nice little bow
Because the setup of Zachry’s story is
that he’s telling the tale of how he met
his wife, Meronym, to his grandchildren.
his story is literally about his story and history
is the story of Mankind.
It is a celebration and condemnation of all human acts
of our mistakes and our failures, of our successes and our victories
It acknowledges that we are able to triumph in the face of adversity,
and even in the darkness moments of our lives we can find light
And that is what Cloud Atlas is all about: it acknowledges that we are able to do good
and why we should do good.
It says that we should be aware of the impact we have on ourselves,
on the world around us, and of course on future generations
and that we should not be afraid of death, because in our own ways we shall be immortalized forever.
With our words, lives, and our stories, being passed down from generation to generation,
as a lesson for them to learn so that they can forge a better future for themselves
and that is something worth fighting for
With that being said, thank you so much for
watching, ladies & gentlemen.
If you enjoyed it, leave a like down below and subscribe to get updated on my latest uploads
Until next time